QC Cam Presenter 3.2 has a game-changing
new feature that I think is going to
make a lot of people happy. Slots. Slots
lets you instantly share your favorite
apps and screens with a click or a
keystroke or a button on your stream
deck. They're down here in Qcam next to
the share bar. And they work the same
way in every app where you use QCAM like
Zoom, Teams, and FaceTime.
Before I tell you any more about what
slots are, I'm going to tell you what
they're not. Slots are not scenes. I
think scenes are a bad way to share
stuff on your webcam. I'm going to say
what seen show you what that what I mean
by that. Now, OBS is a popular way to
make a virtual webcam. It does the same
thing as Qcam, but in a different way.
And it works by making you set up all
these different scenes. Um, here's how
complicated it can get for say a
podcast. This is, you know, maybe not
your general meeting thing, but for me,
like I was doing stuff like this. Um,
I've got this intro, outro stuff. Um,
some of these are used more than once.
I'm kind of jumping around these
different scenes in in different orders
depending on the show. I've got
different sort of media in there. So,
here's a video that I used and I had to
sort of remember to replace the video
each week with something else. And then
if you have a look here, you see like
when when we when you know the sort of
thing with our webcams in it is actually
a scene. It's a scene made of a subscene
and that subscene is actually where I
have to kind of put all my audio and my
overlays and my two different uh camera
sources just so that I can just edit
that master scene in one place. So, it's
it gets quite sophisticated with how you
have to think about it. Um, but also
like this is just one scene collection
and I've got all these different scene
collections as well. So, different tasks
you end up switching to these different
scene collections and like profiles as
well. So you see it's it's pretty
complicated. An alternative to OBS is is
ecam live which is sort of like a bit
friendlier but still kind of does this
scenes paradigm. So here are all my
scenes and I've actually got these
nested. So I've got my podcast two
different podcasts here with the intros
and the outros and the guests. But you
still I'm still to jump between the
different scenes. And you see we've also
got like these sort of one-off videos
that I kind of used in one video but
like never again, right? and and they're
just kind of this is all just like
cluttering up this profile and again
I've got like multiple profiles in here
as well. So um you've got all this
clutter and it's just quite hard to
navigate as well. It's not it doesn't
you know people set up their stream you
you see people with these massive stream
decks with a ton of buttons on them and
then they're sort of having to like
navigate that. The more you do it the
more you get used to it but I don't
think it's the best way to do things.
Qcam solves this profile clutter with
the with the script editor. So the first
thing this this is what QCM solves
first. It lets you put your content and
anything you want to share in a script
like this. So you just have your
sequence of things that you want to talk
about and then anything you want to
share is just a picture in this
particular script. You don't have to
create a load of random profiles. You
just kind of create the script and then
like you're ready to go and then um
these scripts are just files on the file
system which can be searched and shared
and then you know like if it's not
loaded it's not there, right? It's it's
it's a much it's a different paradigm.
It's a different way of thinking about
content. Um, but um, you know, it solves
the profile clutter, but I noticed
people were using the scripts like
scenes, right? Like cuz you can because
you can deep link into any card. You can
right click on it, get a special link
that you can put into your stream deck
and people were starting to kind of like
put those links together in their stream
decks and then they were triggering the
cards which I I think is a bit awkward
even if it does work. Um, it's a way of
managing things, but I thought we could
we could do a bit better than that.
So, here's how I kind of see sharing in
Q Cam. You share one thing at a time,
right? And and like your camera is here
and your, you know, your microphone is
here and you shouldn't really have to
think about anything else when you're
sharing something. Obviously, you might
want to be picturein picture. So, it
just like puts the picturein picture in.
You can turn that on and off with the
same button. And you can just choose
something to share with this nice big
button called the share bar. And then
when you click on that, you get all your
different shares. You can see any Apple
devices that are plugged in. You can see
all the different cameras. You can share
images, videos and you can also like
bring up a blank board if you want and
just like quickly uh draw something and
then so when you are sharing something
clicking on the share bar again just
like puts it out the way like this into
a side 3D so you can come full screen
and then you can bring it back and then
when you press the X button to get rid
of it that is now the share bar
remembers the last thing you shared. So
next time you click it brings back the
same thing, right? Um, and it's
actually, you know, if you want to get
more sophisticated, you can trigger any
of those shares using deep links. It
does give you this copy deep link
button. So, you've always been able to
set up your stream deck or like, you
know, hotkey program to to trigger
scenes in QCAM, but to trigger not
scenes, but trigger different shares in
QCAM, but this didn't always behave
perfectly and it would bring QCam into
focus, which you, you know, unless you
used Philip's plugin, which he shared on
our Discord. Um, but I have actually
found myself day-to-day wanting to share
more than just like I found the share
bar just remembering one thing was a
little bit limiting, right? Like just
dayto-day. I I I do want to share a
handful of different things, you know,
regularly. It's not dozens, but it's
like less than 10. So, I thought, well,
let's have up to nine slots, right? And
so, I can set up the slots and be able
to uh share stuff from the share bar
like that.
Um, so with slots, you can set up your
favorite shares right next to the share
bar down here and just trigger them. Um,
just trigger them with the number key.
Uh, like so you can see here, each of
these slots has a number. So you can
just trigger slot one with the one key
on your keyboard and that's going to
bring it up. You can share a window, you
can share an app, multiple apps, a
blankboard or a connected device or your
whole screen, right? You can just set
these up as many as you need. Um if
you've got more, you might have to make
the window a bit wider, but you get up
to nine slots. Um and then you've got
this new uh feature of the uh Stream
Deck um plugin, which gives you a load
slot button, which you can then drag one
of these, you know, each of the your
slots into Stream Deck buttons. And you
see it's going to pick up the icon. It's
going to pick up like even if there's
multiple apps, it's going to pick up
those multiple app icons. Um, and it's,
you see, it knows what those different
uh shares are, but you're actually just
assigning the slot. So, if you change
the slot that's, you know, what's
assigned to slot one, that will just
kind of be reflected on the stream deck.
You don't have to go back to the stream
deck again. So, um, that's really handy.
So, how do you set up these slots? Well,
first you share something with the share
bar. Then you right click on the share
bar, and then you've got this option to
save to slot. So, if I just pull this
over, you can see I've rightclicked,
I've gone save to slot, and then I've
selected slot five. And now that's going
to be in slot five, whatever I'm
currently sharing. So, it's really that
easy to set up slots. And now you can
just access those however you want. And
if you press the space bar, it's going
to toggle aside 3D. So, if I just show
you this, I can go to my web browser by
pressing one. Press the space bar, it
goes into a side. Press the space bar
again. If I press the escape key, it's
going to like stop sharing. Um, and then
I can, you know, I can go and share I
can share like my whole screen, which is
going to give us some eCam again. I
could, um, share my like coding editors.
I can go to like a, you know, I can
share a blank board quickly and just
like draw a picture, get rid of that,
bring it back, get rid of it. Um, I can
end the share or I can press five. I can
share my iPad screen, which takes a
moment, but yeah, here you can see video
pencil and how I'm drawing on
everything. Um, so this is um,
you know, now I think that's the best of
both worlds like instant access to your
favorite screen shares without having to
set up all that picturein picture video
pencil layers or anything like that. And
then if you want to put together a show,
then you build a script instead of
clogging up your tools with a load of
scene profiles. QCAM 3.2 is out now.
Anyone can give it a go. You just need a
Mac. Uh, you don't even need an iPad or
anything like that. And you can just get
started today.